CONTRIBUTING.MD, before:

# Contributing to K8s-Sherlock

Thank you for considering contributing to K8s-Sherlock! This project thrives due to community involvement, and we appreciate your support. Below are guidelines to help you contribute effectively.

## Table of Contents

- [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
- [How to Contribute](#how-to-contribute)
- [Report Bugs](#report-bugs)
- [Request Features](#request-features)
- [Review Pull Requests](#review-pull-requests)
- [Code Standards](#code-standards)
- [License](#license)

## Code of Conduct

By participating in this project, you are expected to uphold our [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). Please read it before contributing.

## How to Contribute

### 1. Fork the Repository

Fork the [K8s-Sherlock GitHub repository](https://github.com/VivSoftOrg/k8s-sherlock/tree/develop).

### 2. Clone Your Fork

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/k8s-sherlock.git
cd k8s-sherlock
```

### 3. Set Up Remote Upstream

```bash
git remote add upstream https://github.com/VivSoftOrg/k8s-sherlock.git
```

### 4. Create a New Branch

```bash
git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
```

### 5. Make Changes

Make your changes, keeping in mind the project's code standards.

### 6. Commit Your Changes

```bash
git commit -m "Implement XYZ feature"
```

### 7. Update Your Branch

```bash
git fetch upstream
git rebase upstream/develop
```

### 8. Push Changes to GitHub

```bash
git push origin feature/your-feature-name
```

### 9. Create a Pull Request

Navigate to the GitHub page of your fork and click on "New Pull Request."

## Report Bugs

If you encounter a bug, please open a GitHub issue. Include as many details as possible, such as how to reproduce the bug and what you expected to happen.

## Request Features

Feature requests are welcome. Open an issue on GitHub to suggest a new feature. Explain why it would be beneficial and how it should function.

## Review Pull Requests

Reviewing pull requests is another way to contribute. Check the open pull requests and provide feedback.

## Code Standards

- Write clean and understandable code.
- Comment your code where necessary.
- Update documentation as needed.

## License

By contributing, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the project's MIT License.

Thank you for contributing to K8s-Sherlock!

Commit message:

docs: update all documentation for bookworm, multi-arch, RBAC, and security
- Readme: fix bullseye to bookworm, document multi-arch and RBAC setup, add troubleshooting and uninstall sections
- Contributing: add testing, devcontainer, and ShellCheck sections
- Devcontainer: change remoteUser from root to sherlock

CONTRIBUTING.MD, after:

# Contributing to K8s-Sherlock

Thank you for considering contributing to K8s-Sherlock! This project thrives due to community involvement, and we appreciate your support. Below are guidelines to help you contribute effectively.

## Table of Contents

- [How to Contribute](#how-to-contribute)
- [Report Bugs](#report-bugs)
- [Request Features](#request-features)
- [Review Pull Requests](#review-pull-requests)
- [Code Standards](#code-standards)
- [License](#license)

## How to Contribute

### 1. Fork the Repository

Fork the [K8s-Sherlock GitHub repository](https://github.com/arunlab/k8s-sherlock).

### 2. Clone Your Fork

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/k8s-sherlock.git
cd k8s-sherlock
```

### 3. Set Up Remote Upstream

```bash
git remote add upstream https://github.com/arunlab/k8s-sherlock.git
```

### 4. Create a New Branch

```bash
git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
```

### 5. Make Changes

Make your changes, keeping in mind the project's code standards.

### 6. Commit Your Changes

```bash
git commit -m "feat(scope): description of change"
```

### 7. Update Your Branch

```bash
git fetch upstream
git rebase upstream/main
```

### 8. Push Changes to GitHub

```bash
git push origin feature/your-feature-name
```

### 9. Create a Pull Request

Navigate to the GitHub page of your fork and click on "New Pull Request."

## Report Bugs

If you encounter a bug, please open a GitHub issue. Include as many details as possible, such as how to reproduce the bug and what you expected to happen.

## Request Features

Feature requests are welcome. Open an issue on GitHub to suggest a new feature. Explain why it would be beneficial and how it should function.

## Review Pull Requests

Reviewing pull requests is another way to contribute. Check the open pull requests and provide feedback.

## Testing

Run the integration test suite to verify the Docker image:

```bash
./tests/test.sh
```

The test script builds the image locally and checks that all expected tools are present and functional. Make sure Docker is running before executing.

## Development with Devcontainer

The project includes a [devcontainer](.devcontainer/devcontainer.json) configuration for VS Code / GitHub Codespaces:

1. Open the project in VS Code
2. When prompted, click **Reopen in Container** (or run `Dev Containers: Reopen in Container` from the command palette)
3. The container builds from the project's Dockerfile and includes extensions for Kubernetes, Docker, YAML, and ShellCheck

This gives you a fully configured development environment with all tools pre-installed.

## Code Standards

- Write clean and understandable code.
- Comment your code where necessary.
- Update documentation as needed.
- Shell scripts must pass [ShellCheck](https://www.shellcheck.net/) (`shellcheck scripts/*.sh tests/*.sh`). The ShellCheck VS Code extension is included in the devcontainer.

## License

By contributing, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the project's [Mozilla Public License 2.0](LICENSE).

Thank you for contributing to K8s-Sherlock!
